# Semestral Project: Predictive Coding Network Experiments
Semester project for my exchange at the Comenius University in Bratislava for my MEi:CogSci master's
## Introduction
Predictive processing is a novel approach to understanding cognition, viewing the brain as a "prediction machine" that operates through active inference. This approach suggests that in any situation, the brain actively predicts the most probable outcomes, using both action-based responses and detailed knowledge that continuously adapts to changing tasks and contexts (Clark, 2015). Central to this approach is Bayesian learning, where the brain updates its expectations (or "posterior probability") by factoring in the likelihood of events based on prior beliefs. Predictive processing gained traction with discoveries in neuroscience that similar mechanisms underpin the brain’s functioning, particularly in the visual cortex. Rao and Ballard (1999) found that some visual effects—previously assumed to result solely from direct sensory input—are also shaped by feedback from higher brain areas. This feedback allows the brain to make efficient, layered guesses about incoming visual information, enhancing accuracy of processing natural images. This finding allowed cognitive scientists to adjust their beliefs about how cognition in the brain works providing a new framework for the analysis and modeling of cognitive phenomena.

This approach to cognitive science has also informed the creation process of artificial systems such as neural networks. Similar to the neural networks of the brain, these artificial neural networks (ANNs) are developed on the principles of the Bayesian brain integrating previous knowledge and likelihood into the outcome calculations. This approach has been studied in the past with intriguing results and new emergent abilities (Han et al., 2018; Wen et al., 2018). These Predictive Coding Networks (PCNs) while reaching promising performance metrics, also provide a greater biological basis as their underlying mechanisms are based on the proposed neural network mechanisms of the brain. This new form of artificial neural network could also be of use in the field of robotics as neural networks have been showing great promise in the creation of more autonomous and human-like robots. 

## Experiments
## Files 
